Add audio text to text task (#1692)
huggingface/huggingface.js: packages/tasks/src/tasks/audio-text-to-text/about.md

## Use Cases

> This task takes `audio` and a `text prompt` and returns `text` (answers, summaries, structured notes, etc.).

### Audio question answering
Ask targeted questions about lectures, podcasts, or calls and get context-aware answers.
**Example:** Audio: physics lecture → Prompt: “What did the teacher say about gravity and how is it measured?”

### Meeting notes & action items
Turn multi-speaker meetings into concise minutes with decisions, owners, and deadlines.
**Example:** Audio: weekly stand-up → Prompt: “Summarize key decisions and list action items with assignees.”

### Speech understanding & intent
Go beyond transcription to extract intent, sentiment, uncertainty, or emotion from spoken language.
**Example:** “I’m not sure I can finish this on time.” → Prompt: “Describe speaker intent and confidence.”

### Music & sound analysis (textual)
Describe instrumentation, genre, tempo, or sections, and suggest edits or techniques (text output only).
**Example:** Song demo → Prompt: “Identify key and tempo, then suggest jazz reharmonization ideas for the chorus.”

## Inference

> You can use 'transformers' library, and your audio file to any of the `audio-text-to-text` model, with instructions and get text responses. Following code examples show how to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the 'transformers' library, and your audio file to any of the `audio-text-to-text` model, with instructions and get text responses. Following code examples show how to do so.
```

You can try audio transcription with [Voxtral Mini](https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Voxtral-Mini-3B-2507) using following code.

```python
from transformers import VoxtralForConditionalGeneration, AutoProcessor
import torch

device = "cuda"
repo_id = "mistralai/Voxtral-Mini-3B-2507"

processor = AutoProcessor.from_pretrained(repo_id)
model = VoxtralForConditionalGeneration.from_pretrained(repo_id, dtype=torch.bfloat16, device_map=device)

inputs = processor.apply_transcription_request(language="en", audio="https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/dummy-audio-samples/resolve/main/obama.mp3", model_id=repo_id)
inputs = inputs.to(device, dtype=torch.bfloat16)

outputs = model.generate(**inputs, max_new_tokens=500)
decoded_outputs = processor.batch_decode(outputs[:, inputs.input_ids.shape[1]:], skip_special_tokens=True)

print("\nGenerated responses:")
print("=" * 80)
for decoded_output in decoded_outputs:
    print(decoded_output)
    print("=" * 80)
```

### Audio Question Answering 
These models can understand audio directly and answer questions about it. For example, summarizing a podcast clip or explaining parts of a recorded conversation.

> You can experiment wit [Qwen2-Audio-Instruct-Demo](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2-Audio-Instruct-Demo) for conversations with both text and audio inputs, letting you ask follow-up questions about different sounds or speech clips.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can experiment with [Qwen2-Audio-Instruct-Demo](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2-Audio-Instruct-Demo) for conversations with both text and audio inputs, letting you ask follow-up questions about different sounds or speech clips.
```

> You can experiment wit [Qwen2-Audio-Instruct-Demo](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2-Audio-Instruct-Demo) for conversations with both text and audio inputs, letting you ask follow-up questions about different sounds or speech clips.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can experiment wit [Qwen2-Audio-Instruct-Demo](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2-Audio-7B-Instruct) for conversations with both text and audio inputs, letting you ask follow-up questions about different sounds or speech clips.
```

## Use Cases

> > This task takes **audio** and an optional **text prompt** and returns **text** (answers, summaries, structured notes, etc.).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> This task takes `audio` and a `text prompt` and returns `text` (answers, summaries, structured notes, etc.).
```

Reviewer 2: it's not optional, text prompt is always required in Audio LMs.

### Audio question answering
Ask targeted questions about lectures, podcasts, or calls and get prices, and context-aware answers.
**Example:** Audio: physics lecture → Prompt: “What did the teacher say about gravity and how is it measured?”

### Meeting notes & action items
Turn multi-speaker meetings into concise minutes with decisions, owners, and deadlines.
**Example:** Audio: weekly stand-up → Prompt: “Summarize key decisions and list action items with assignees.”

### Speech understanding & intent
Go beyond transcription to extract intent, sentiment, uncertainty, or emotion from spoken language.
**Example:** “I’m not sure I can finish this on time.” → Prompt: “Describe speaker intent and confidence.”

> ### Lecture/podcast summarization with follow-ups
> Produce a brief summary, then answer follow-up questions that reference the audio.
> **Example:** Audio: 30-min podcast → Prompt: “Give a 5-bullet summary, then explain the guest’s main argument.”
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Let's remove this since it's quite similar to second point with `Meeting notes & action items` - we can update that with details of this point in a concise manner.

### Music & sound analysis (textual)
Describe instrumentation, genre, tempo, or sections, and suggest edits or techniques (text output only).
**Example:** Song demo → Prompt: “Identify key and tempo, then suggest jazz reharmonization ideas for the chorus.”

## Inference
You can use 'transformers' library, and your audio file to any of the `audio-text-to-text` model, with instructions and get text responses. Following code examples show how to do so.

> ### Summarization / Q&A on a Single Audio

Reviewer 2: could you maybe take the inference examples from here: https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface.js/pull/1212 

just those two are sufficient.

        ],
    },
    {
        "role": "assistant",
        "content": "The audio begins with the speaker delivering a farewell address in Chicago, reflecting on his eight years as president and expressing gratitude to the American people. The audio then transitions to a weather report, stating that it was 35 degrees in Barcelona the previous day, but the temperature would drop to minus 20 degrees the following day.",
    },
    {
        "role": "user",
        "content": [
            {
                "type": "audio",
                "path": "https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/dummy-audio-samples/resolve/main/winning_call.mp3",
            },
            {"type": "text", "text": "Ok, now compare this new audio with the previous one."},
        ],
    },
]

inputs = processor.apply_chat_template(conversation)
inputs = inputs.to(device, dtype=torch.bfloat16)

outputs = model.generate(**inputs, max_new_tokens=500)
decoded_outputs = processor.batch_decode(outputs[:, inputs.input_ids.shape[1]:], skip_special_tokens=True)

print("\nGenerated response:")
print("=" * 80)
print(decoded_outputs[0])
print("=" * 80)
```

> ## Useful Resources

Reviewer 2: similarly for the resources you can also enrich this list with the ones in this PR: https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface.js/pull/1212 (the more resources the better)

If you want to learn more about this concept, here are some useful links:

### Papers

> - [SpeechGPT (Paper)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2507.13264)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [SpeechGPT (Paper)](https://huggingface.co/papers/2507.13264)
```

> - [Voxtral (Paper)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2507.13264)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Voxtral (Paper)](https://huggingface.co/papers/2507.13264)
```

> - [Qwen2-audio-instruct (Paper)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.10759)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Qwen2-audio-instruct (Paper)](https://huggingface.co/papers/2407.10759)
```

> - [AudioPaLM (Paper)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12925)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [AudioPaLM (Paper)](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.12925)
```

## Use Cases

### Audio question answering
Ask questions about an audio clip, and the model gives answers.
Example: “What did the teacher say about gravity in this lecture?”

### Music Analysis
Work with audio and prompts to analyze.
Example: “Make this melody sound more jazzy”

### Speech Understanding
Go beyond transcription to capture meaning, intent, and emotion.
Example: Understanding uncertainty in “I’m not sure I can finish this on time.”

### Meeting Minutes
Summarize meetings into action items.
Example: Audio: job interview → Prompt: “List strengths and weaknesses”

## Inference
You can use transformers library, and your audio file to any of the audio-text-to-text model, with insturctions and get text responses. Following code shows how to do so.

```python

import transformers
import numpy as np
import librosa

> pipe = transformers.pipeline(model='fixie-ai/ultravox-v0_5-llama-3_2-1b', trust_remote_code=True)

Reviewer 3: would be nice to pick an officially implemented model like Voxtral

> path = "<path-to-input-audio>"  # TODO: pass the audio here

Author: Added more examples that load from the URL. Checked on Google Colab and these run without needing anything else.

audio, sr = librosa.load(path, sr=16000)

turns = [
  {
    "role": "system",
    "content": "You are a friendly and helpful character. You love to answer questions for people."
  },
]
pipe({'audio': audio, 'turns': turns, 'sampling_rate': sr}, max_new_tokens=30)

> ```

Author: Added research papers, datasets, and code and demo links to the about.md file.
